---
question: How does Trike scale?  Can Trike be used effectively on very large or very complicated systems?
---
We have found that systems with more than about a dozen actors and a dozen assets are difficult to model as one system using Trike v1.  One human reader/user of a threat model must be able to read/use the model to hold some view of the entire system in his or her head.  When a model contains too many assets or actors, it is hard for a human being (even one used to using the Trike tool's grids for visualization) to grasp the big picture all at one time.  The current tool implementation suffers from performance issues right around this maximum human-comprehensible model size, and we do not plan to increase performance beyond what is usable for humans.  The solution is to break the system into smaller pieces, without losing anything important between the smaller systems that you decide to model.  We have some experience doing this and plan to publish our results (both working and nonworking strategies) when we have time to write them up.  We do not currently have automated support for relating multiple threat models, but the current tool wouldn't impede this in any way.

The Trike v1 methodology does not address the issues associated with particularly complex business logic better than any other available methodology.  In the current tool implementation, when the rules for a particular action develop a large number of atomic clauses, operations involving the rules become slow, making this issue worse.  Our thoughts for Trike v2 (still unpublished, no, you didn't miss anything) look promising in this regard but we have not tested it on a sufficiently complicated system, and will be unable to do so until we have written a v2 tool.
